I can't believe the show sold out
without us telling anyone what's
happening.
>> I know, right? [laughter]
I hope uh I hope people aren't
disappointed.
>> Should we have told them at least one
guest or like released a detail or
I like it. You know, it's Broadway. It's
theater. It's uh you're in for a show.
>> Come see Acquired as a show. Yep. The
suspense, the mystery. Which train are
we taking again?
>> Uh, I think it's the B.
>> B. B. Nice.
>> New York really jumps. It does feel like
the center of everything.
>> You know the famous New Yorker cartoon
about [music] how New Yorkers see the
geography of America that it's it's the
island of Manhattan in the cartoon and
then there's the Hudson River and then
it's just California on the other side
of the Hudson River. There's nothing in
between. [laughter]
We got a little bit of time before the
show. What do you think [music] about a
hot dog?
>> I get a hot dog.
>> All right, let's do it.
Thank you. I love it. [music]
>> It is my favorite thing to do when I
come to New York.
>> It's the best.
>> Spend some time in Central Park and
you're just like walk around all day,
pop out, [music] get bagels. I was
trying to think what was the first
listener live thing we ever did.
>> I think it was the Geekwire conference
in Seattle. And then we did the Wei Work
in San Francisco in the Tender Lions.
About 100 people.
>> Yep. The PA system went out halfway
through.
>> Someone ran to Best Buy.
>> Yep. Picked up a new PA system. That was
amazing.
Come a long way.
>> Come a long way.
>> Should we do it?
>> Let's do it.
>> New York City, PLEASE PUT YOUR HANDS
TOGETHER FOR BIG GILBERT AND DAVID
ROSEN.
Who got the [music] truth?
Is it you? Is it you? Is it you? Who
[music] got the truth now?
Is it you? Is it? [applause]
Hello acquired listeners. [cheering]
[applause]
>> We are so so excited to have you all
here tonight for our live podcast
episode recording.
So, all right, David, should we do it?
Let's do it.
Um, I think this was better in theory.
I'm not sure. It feels like kind of a
waste of all this this stage, this radio
city music hall that we have here.
>> I think you're right. Should we um
should we do the other thing?
>> Yeah, maybe we should do the the other
thing instead. Let's do that. Hey, Mike.
Uh, could you help us level it up a
little bit in here?
>> I think we can cook something up.
>> [applause]
>> Radio City. [music]
Are you ready? WHO GOT THE TRUTH?
Is it you? You [music] who got the
truth? Now,
is it you? Is it you? Is it you? [music]
Set me down. Say it straight. Another
story on the way. Who [music] got the
truth? Who got the truth?
>> [applause]
>> Radio City, Mike Taylor, everyone. Woo.
[applause]
Now,
this feels a little more Radio City.
>> Yes, it does.
>> David Rosenthal, you look sharp.
>> Uh, you do too, Ben.
>> I suppose we have our friends uh friends
at Hermes to thank for helping us
celebrate the occasion and show up in
style.
>> Yes. As always. As always. Indeed.
Indeed.
>> Well, welcome to Acquired LIVE AT RADIO
CITY MUSIC HALL.
>> [applause]
>> THANK YOU SO much for all of you for
coming out and those of you who traveled
from far away. We've got people from
different states, different continents.
Thank you so much. So, what are we
really doing tonight?
>> Ben and I thought long and hard about
what to do tonight. What is the best
show we can put on on the greatest stage
in the greatest city in the entire world
here in New York? Woo! [cheering]
[applause]
And we realized that what we should do
tonight is obvious what Acquired should
do. We are going to have three
conversations with three of the city's
most iconic company CEOs. The way we're
going to do it is in two acts. So act
one, we've got a big conversation with
an important American company that we
haven't covered yet here on Acquired
that we're going to tell here with the
protagonist himself. And in act two
after intermission, we are going to have
some fun and we're going to try out a
new format for Acquired specifically
tailored for Radio City Music Hall.
>> Yep. So, our first conversation, there
is really only one active CEO today here
in America who transcends leading his
company and really is also looked to as
a leader for our country.
>> His company is now worth around $800
billion. And not only is it the most
valuable company in New York, but it's
the most valuable company east of the
Mississippi.
>> So for tonight's big conversation,
please welcome the chairman and CEO of
JP Morgan Chase,
Jamie Diamond, [music]
great to have you here. [music]
Well, this feels appropriate. [laughter]
>> You guys dressed up for me.
>> You dressed up for us, too. Thank you.
Well, we know you're a big history buff,
and we consider ourselves historians
above all else. So, uh, what we'd like
to do here tonight is walk through the
20-year story with you of sort of how
you turned JP Morgan Chase from a bank
among many to the most systemically
important financial institution in the
world. Are you game?
>> Sounds great. Thank you. [laughter]
>> We want to start in 1998.
You and your mentor Sandy While have
just spent the past 13 years building
the modern financial institution
conglomerate. really the the the
blueprint for what JP Morgan Chase is
today. Except it's not JP Morgan, it's
Croup. And everybody on Wall Street in
the entire world expects that you are
going to be named CEO of Cityroup in
short order.
>> This is 1998.
>> 1998. This is not what happens. Instead,
you get fired and you have to restart
your whole career, everything, your
whole life from scratch. Sorry to start
here by the way, [laughter]
>> but but before we get into what you do
next, what was the model that you and
Sandy built at Cityroup?
>> Okay, first of all, I am thrilled to be
here. I want to congratulate these guys
for building the acquired. Uh it's a
it's a great intelligent addition to
what we need to learn in society. And so
I would say it wasn't quite the model
because if you look at what we did at
commercial credit primarch was then
travelers and merged. We were a
financial conglomerate. We bought lots
of companies and lots of different
businesses. We fixed them up. We turned
around. We made money. Uh and then we
merged it with City Bank which obviously
was a huge bank. And uh you know my view
is I was we should skinny it down and
kind of shed the parts that aren't that
important to the rest of the company and
keep the things that strategically
belong together. It was one of my small
disagreements with Sandy about the
future of the company. And so um but it
was big. It was making a lot of money.
It was quite successful at the time and
then I got fired.
>> So So how are you feeling in that
moment?
>> When I got fired?
>> Yeah, that moment.
>> Well, you know, my wife is here and I
was hosting a 100 people uh recruiter
recruiting kids in my apartment in New
York City. Same apartment I have now.
And uh they called me. We have a manage
meeting a Sunday at 4 pm that night and
Sandy and John Reed called me up and
said, "Can you come a little early? We
got a bunch of stuff to talk about." I
was the president, chief operating
officer. I drove I said, "I can't." They
said, "Well, it's really important." So,
I drove up there. Uh, and I sat down in
the room with Sandy and John and they
said they want to make a few changes and
they have three of them. And they said
we one one we want to make this person
in charge of that. I Okay, well, that
didn't make sense to me. The second one
they wanted to make someone in charge of
the global investment bank which I was
running. I thought it was another stupid
decision. And the third is they said and
we want you to resign. And I said okay
because you know at that moment I knew
it was all arranged. The boards had
voted the press release was written. The
management team was coming up. So I
waited uh you know for the management
team to come up. I wished them the best.
I said you guys have a chance to build
one of the great companies. They all
thanked me. Uh they Sandy said you want
to do the press with me? I said, "Yeah,
but I'll do it from home." Uh, so I went
home, went to see my kids. They were
like, one of my daughters here, too.
They were like 12, 14, 12, and 10. And I
walk in the front door. And, uh, I tell
them, you I was fired. And the youngest
one says, "Daddy, uh, do we have to
sleep on the streets?" I said, "No, no,
we're okay." And the middle one, who's
always obsessed with college for some
reason. Can I still go to college? I
said, "Yeah." And the one who was here
was the oldest one said, "Great. Since
you don't need it, can I have your cell
phone? [laughter]
And then that night about 50 people came
over. All the same people I just met,
all the management team bringing whiskey
and it was like being your own wake. And
there's one really tall guy who came in,
very good friend of mine. And he looks
and my daughter looks up and says, "Who
are you?" He says, "I used I work for
your daddy." And he says, "Not anymore
you don't." [laughter] And
uh that was it. I was okay. You know, I
was like I tell people my net worth, not
my self worth that was involved.
>> And for anyone who doesn't sort of
already know Jaime's story, you were the
rising star. I mean, you were the city
was the biggest bank. You were the era
parent. I mean, this is this was like
unfathomable. And for you to take it
this gracefully, uh, you know, it says a
lot. So, you're sort of wandering in the
woods as I best I can kind of
reconstruct it for about 18 months. Is
that right? Figuring out what's next.
Yeah, I you know it took me a while to e
exit and sign agreements and get out.
They were kind of mean. Uh but and then
I stepped in office and it was late. I
we went for a nice long vacation and
stuff like that. Uh when I got back in
September, so I was 6 months later I
went to my I started going to work. I
had nothing to do but I went from you
know to 9 to5 and started calling people
and thinking about what I'm going to do.
It was in the Seagru building so I go
for lunch downstairs every day and I
>> Four seasons
>> at the Four Seasons and I explored
everything. Thought my own merchant
bank. I could have retired just teaching
uh just investing but I was 42
>> and you you took a call about running
Amazon, didn't you?
>> I went to I loved I went to visit Jeff
Bezos who was looking for a president at
the time. He and I hit it off. We've
been friends ever since. He's an
exceptional human being. Uh, but it was
like a bridge too far. Even though that
movie just come out when Sally met
Harry, I was thinking, "My god, I'll
never wear a suit again. I'm going to
live in a house boat.
>> This would be really great. Uh,
>> what what an alternate universe we'd be
living in.
>> It would have been an alternate
universe." But I'm still good friends
with Jeff. So, I got at least one good
thing out of it. Uh, and then I would
then I got serious, you know, and I was
I was offered jobs to run, you know, big
other big global investment banks. Uh,
Hank Greenberg, who ran AIG, called me
up and said, "You should come join us."
So I was thinking I'm going to go from
Sandy Wild to you. I mean I had to have
my head examined to do something like
that. [laughter]
>> I didn't know the AIG story
>> then. Yeah. Well that that happened
years later too. And then u I got a
phone call from Head Hunter about Bank
One. And I was also you guys a lot of
you probably know Ken Langon and Bernie
Marcus and Arthur the Blank ran Home
Depot. My wife I loved them but at my
first dinner with them I went to see
them in Atlanta. I said I have to make a
confession until you guys called. I had
never been in a Home Depot and
>> we were actually wondering David and I
were dating.
>> We were talking about a lifelong New
Yorker.
>> My friend made me go up there and get
some equipment and plants and stuff like
that. So, but I love their culture,
their attitude. They want me to do it.
Kentland says he still I still should
have gotten you. I wasn't going to pay
you enough. Of course, it had nothing to
do with anything like that. Uh, and I
had Bank One, but bank one was my
habitat. I was used to financial
companies, you know, services, banking.
It wasn't quite global. It was a little
global at the time. Uh and you know it
was a troubled bank and you know I
decided that you know life is what you
make it. It was hard in my family. I had
a we had to move. I think for anyone
who's going to move kids that you know I
think there were 14 12.
>> Some context on bank one for for folks
who are not familiar.
>> It's not in New York. It's a large bank
but it's a troubled bank.
>> It's based in Chicago.
>> Large David. It's a it's a $30 billion
market cap bank. City Group where you
just had been before was a 200
>> Yeah.
>> billion dollar bank.
>> It was 21 billion at the time because it
had you have the right numbers but it's
did a split and so if you look back it
was more like 20 20 billion or something
like that. Yeah. And city was 200 but
you know I didn't worry about that. I
was like you know in life you make
things what they are. I don't like
complaining about overspilled milk. You
know you just put on your pants you get
going and see if you can make out of it.
And uh
>> but you it sounds like you had
opportunities to stay in New York to run
bigger more glamorous
>> things. this when I was going to run the
company. The other ones would have been
some investment banks. I didn't really
trust some of the people who were
talking to me about that. And there's a
whole bunch of other stuff that I
explored. I took phone calls, some small
companies, some big companies, there's a
couple of subprime mortgage companies
who called me and I was like, absolutely
not. [laughter] Uh
>> we'll get to that. We'll get to that.
>> We'll get to that. And uh so I just
thought this was a chance, you know, and
uh you know, if the family's willing to
move and we got a nice took us a while.
We had lived in a rental for a while,
but we got a nice brownstone. And you
know, we end up loving Chicago. Chicago
is a wonderful city in a lot of
different ways. And and you know, like I
said, it is what you make it, you know,
and I I I put half my money in the stock
at the time.
>> Yeah.
>> I tied my I was going to be the captain
of the ship. I was going to go down with
the ship, you know. I made it clear to
everyone I was here permanently and
it'll be what it is. And so I got to
work like literally the next day. Did
>> Did we do the math right that right
before you joined Bank One, you bought
$60 million of stock?
>> I did. I mean, I I that's I've never
heard of someone taking a CEO job and
saying, "I'm going to invest half my net
worth in this company now."
>> Yeah. And I thought it was I thought it
might be overvalued a little bit because
there was people thought it might be
sold or something like that, but I
didn't care about that. You know, if you
work at a company and the new CEO comes
in, he's from out of town and you're
going to have a lot of shareholders and
you know, I knew I knew a lot of the
shareholders. I was going to know a lot
of the shareholders. I wanted them to
know I was in 100%. Lock, stock, and
barrel. There was no question. I would
never sell that stock and I'm going to
go down with the ship or go up with the
ship. And they also you I was making
decisions that I thought were right for
long-term health of the company, not for
a short term type of thing.
>> So, so what did you find when you got
there? Day one of the job you start
investigating is it better, worse, the
same than you thought.
>> You know, there there had been an
analyst called Mike Mayo done a report.
I remember one of the great lines of the
report. Even Hercules couldn't fix it.
It had been an amalgamation of Bank One,
First Chicago, National Bank of Detroit.
They had never put the companies
together. So they had multiple statement
systems, processing systems, payment
systems, you know, SAP systems. Uh they
had different brands, you know, services
coming down. We were losing accounts.
They were closing branches. It was a
mess. But, you know, it was all of it.
Systems, people, ops. But again, I just,
you know, I just I met the management
team. I It's hard. You know, I walked
in, I met six of the directors. I there
were 21 directors 11 hated the other 10.
>> Yeah. I mean even wait there were 21
board members.
>> 21 board members from the mer multiple
acquisitions. They they were tribal.
They ended up hating each other. I knew
that when I went in because I knew one
people and you know I spoke to a lot of
people did research in the bank. But
again in life you get handed these
things and it's not perfect. You know
even today people want to be handed
something perfect. It's not perfect. And
I was so I met six of directors. I
walked in. When I got off of the job, I
shook all their hands. I told them I'm
going to do the best I do. I'm tell the
truth, the whole truth, none of the
truth. The good, the bad, the ugly.
We're not going to [__] We're going
to try to build a great company. I'm
going to need your help. And uh and then
they they said they left. [laughter] So
now I'm on the executive floor. I don't
even know where to go, you know. And so
I kind of knocked on someone's door, the
head of HR. I said, I do need an office
and I really need an assistant. and they
were going to give me the chairman's
office in the corner. I said, "No, no, I
want to be like right in the middle so I
can see people." I stick my head out.
Uh, and then I went to meet the
management team. I went to this, they
put them all in this conference room, a
nice white plush carpets. I walked in
with a cup of coffee and they said, "Uh,
Jamie, we don't drink coffee here for
obvious reasons." So, I looked at them.
I looked at the coffee. I looked at
them. I said, "You do now." [laughter]
And then I then I just started meeting
with them all and the systems were
terrible. The company's losing money. I
didn't know all the businesses really
well. So the credit card company had
collapsed. That's probably the business
I knew the least. Uh but again, it
didn't that didn't matter to me. I was
going to try to fix it. It had some good
assets and things like that. So I rolled
up my sleeves and went to work.
one of um as as when we were chatting a
couple weeks ago in preparing for this
um we asked you in the context of JP
Morgan like what what are the critical
things in your mind that has made JP
Morgan what it is today and the first
thing you said was risk and the culture
around risk
>> fundamentalis understanding by
management of risk.
>> Yeah.
>> When you got to bank one
I think this is where you first started
putting into practice the culture around
risk. What was the risk culture at Bank
1 and how did you change it?
>> Yeah, I you know I've always been very
risk conscious and risk conscious does
not mean getting rid of risk. It means
properly pricing it and understanding
the potential outcomes. Uh uh and so
when I got there, you know, I just
started meeting people and going
through, I quickly realized that Bank
One had more US corporate credit risk
than City Bank did. And they the way
they accounted for it was unbelievably
aggressive and you know so they had less
capital, less reserves, less this. They
they were calling these things
profitable. They were basically losing
money. Uh and you know loans in a lot of
business you got to be very careful
about the credit business. And once I
found out that I kind of panicked a
little bit and I went through every
single loan in the books. I marked them
all down, put up more reserves, told the
board uh about it and then wanted to
earn more revenues per dollar of risk.
And I always stress tested and I showed
the board that if we have a recession
and we're about to have one, uh, how
much money we lose in credit? So, I
hired a woman called Linda Bamman who
said, "Okay, if you're going to if
you're going to let me do credit, you
going to let me sell loans?" They said,
"Yes." "Are you let me hedge loans?"
"Yes." "Can I do 10 billion?" I said,
"Yes." She said, "Okay, I'll join." And
we probably reduced the balance sheet by
50 billion because and then we did have
a recession but we were kind of okay by
then with one big bad one which is
United which went bankrupt and we
basically owned it for a small period of
time.
>> There seems to be kind of a fundamental
Jamie Diamondism which is don't blow up.
I mean a lot of other people have gotten
decent at pricing risk but everyone else
seems to be willing to get closer to the
line than you. Where did you sort of
develop this don't blow up at all costs
concept? So there's you know around risk
there's always this ecosystem you've
always heard it everyone's doing it
everyone's okay this is going to work
this time is different and you know the
history tells you learn teaches you a
lot and I always say you treat his my
dad was a stock broker and so I bought
my first stock when I was 14 in 1972 the
stock market hit a thousand it hit a
thousand in 1968 I was already helping a
little bit with stuff
by 1974 was down 45%
All the limousines in Wall Street were
gone. Restaurants were being closed. You
know, markets move violently. And then,
you know, we had kind of a recovery in
1980. Had a recession. 82. You had a
recession. In ' 82, it was lower than it
had been in 1968. And it hit 800. And
then in ' 87, the market was down 25% in
one day. In 1990, all these banks, JP
Morgan, City, Chase, Chemical, were all
taken to their knees by real estate
losses. And they were all worth about a
billion dollars. I met I think city was
three billion at the time and the other
ones were about a billion dollars. And
then you had the 97
also real estate related thing. You had
the 2000 internet bubble, you know, and
then you had the great financial crisis.
And I could if you go through history,
there's tons of these things. Andrew War
Soren is in here and I just read his
book. He's nice enough to send it to me
in 1929. And man, history does rhyme.
Too much leverage, too much risk.
Everyone thinks it's going to be great.
No one thinks it can go down a lot. You
know, that stock market went down 20%
one year, 30% next year, 20% the next
year. At one point, it was down 90%. You
know, [__] happens.
>> It seems like your philosophy is that
the most the worst thing will happen.
So, just plan for it. Don't don't say,
"Oh, we're good as long as this crazy
insane, you know, four sigma event
doesn't happen." You're like, "No, that
will happen. It happens often."
>> Yeah. So when I got when I look at it I
always ask like when I do stress testing
of risk for high yield the worst I
remember getting a JP Morgan and going
through the risk books and there their
stress test was that high yield would
move 40% the credit spread that's and at
the time was it 400 or whatever it was
that means five 560 okay and I said no
our stress test is going to be worst
ever worst ever was 17%. and they said
that'll never happen again. The market's
more sophisticated. Well, in ' 08, it
hit 20%. And you couldn't have sold a
bond. There was no market. So, you know,
those things do happen. And the point
isn't that you're trying to guess them.
The point is you you can handle them.
So, you continue build your business.
And so, I always look what I call the
fat tails and manage that we can handle
all the all the fat tails. And not the
stress test the Fed gives us, but all
the fat tails. Market's down 50%,
interest rates up to 8%, credit spreads
back to worst ever. Of course, your
results will be worse, but you're there.
And and the thing about financial
services, leverage kills you. Aggressive
accounting can kill you, which a lot of
companies do do. Um, and you know, the
goal should be and also confidence. If
you lose money as a financial company, I
always knew this too. People the
headlines are, you know, people read
that and if they're aligned on putting
their money with you, they look at that
different. So, I
>> they lose trust. they lose trust and
that which caused you've seen runs on
banks and you've saw some recently uh
because people run take their money out.
>> The one there's a thing that you just
said which is that you might do worse
but you're there there's sort of this
trade-off that you make where you're
less profitable in the short term but at
least you stick around. If you look back
at the companies that you've run,
beguan, JP Morgan, Chase, is that true
in the good years that you've actually
been less profitable than those who are
kind of riskone.
>> Yeah, a little bit. He's saying that,
you know, if you look at the history of
banks from up until 2007, a lot of banks
were earning 30% equity. Most of them
went bankrupt. We never did that much.
Okay? But in ' 08 and 09, we were fine
and they weren't. And so uh but you want
to build a real strong company with real
margins, real clients, conservative
accounting where you're not relying on
leverage. And it's very easy to use
leverage to, you know, to jack up
returns in any business, you know, and
but in in banking, it could be
particularly dangerous.
>> So it seems like a core
part, if not the entirety of this
distilled into your operating strategy,
is the Fortress balance sheet.
When did you first hear about the
forestress balance sheet?
>> I've been talking I go way back to prim.
I used to talk about that you got to be
able to survive the tough times early
>> 90s probably the 1990s and like I said I
grew up my father and I went through
those market things and I remember how
hard it was on people on Wall Street. Uh
but but the fortress balance sheet is
that you run a company serving clients
well. You have good margins, good
liquidity, good capital. I'm as
conservative an accountant as you can
find. I don't upfront profits when I can
spread them over time. And accounting,
you know, of course accountants hate it
when I say this. You can drive a truck
through accounting rules. And accounting
itself, you know that certain things are
considered expenses, but they're good.
They're an investment for the future,
but they're called an expense. And then
revenues, you know, if I make bad loans,
they are bad revenues. They will kill
you, but for a while, they look pretty
good. So, I it's all those things.
margins, clients, you know, in the
banking business, the character of the
clients you have will reflect in your
bank. So, the first thing is who are you
doing business with? How you doing
business? And uh you know, also making
sure your compensation plans aren't
paying people for stuff which is stupid
or unethical. And you know, uh and you
always have to review these things to
make sure you have them right because
they they change all the time.
>> All right, David, catch catch us up to
the merger. So you run bank one for four
years from Chicago and then in 2004 you
merge with JP Morgan Chase in what is
termed at the time a merger of equals I
think JP Morgan Chase referred to it as
that bank one shareholders get 42%
of the combined company. I mean I think
people don't realize how much of JP
Morgan Chase is bank one today. That's
why it's a little irritating me when
they say you've been running it since I
was I was running JP Morgan. I was
running 40% of the company for the whole
time. [laughter] And uh when I got to
Bank One and I'm not working around the
clock, I I already knew that a logical
strategic merger might be JP Morgan.
Okay, I know all these companies and
that's the other thing about Fortress
balance sheet is you also have real
strategies that survive the test of time
and you know you're not flipping and
flopping. Um, [clears throat] and then
I'm sitting there and of course the tape
comes JP Morgan Chase to merge. So we're
worth like 25 billion. They're now worth
like 80 billion or 90 or whatever the
number was. I'm like, well, there goes
that dream. But four years later, our
stock was up to, you know, doubled or
something like that. There's actually
come in and it was in the target range
and I'd been meeting with Bill Harrison,
the current chairman of of JP Morgan at
the time. We were talking about it. We
both knew it made business sense. They
were kind of looking for a CEO. Uh so we
were we had been talking probably for a
year and a half before that
>> that they're looking for a CEO. Did they
give Bank One shareholders 42% because
they were looking for a CEO? So we got
the premium, they got the name and the
location and I I effectively had kind of
control from day one because inside the
merge agreement and this is almost
unheard of when we get the premium is
that to not have me become CEO 18 months
later 75% of the board would have to
vote me out and the board
>> the default was you were going to become
>> and the board was eight bank one people
and eight JP Morgan people but that was
the agreement they got sued for paying
too much to buy me. I got sued for not
taking enough. [laughter]
You get sued, you can't win these.
>> I think every shareholder is probably
>> But it worked. It worked out.
>> Yeah. When you were going through that
process and even maybe the couple years
before you and Bill were talking, you're
starting to think about JP Morgan as a
partner. I'm curious, did the brand, did
the name JP Morgan factor into your
thinking at all? Did you view that
>> as an asset? I mean JP Morgan brand is a
Tiffany name. I didn't value it in the
deal. And what we what I looked at I had
given my board I think it's I think the
first thing is run your company well and
people thought I was going to start
doing deals immediately. I was like no
we suck. We don't we haven't earned the
right to run someone else's company yet.
When we're running a good company we can
merge with somebody. And but I but the
first thing I looked at was business
logic and that every business we had a
consumer business. They had a consumer
business. We had a credit card business.
They were both terrible. They had a
credit card business. They had a big
investment bank. We had a big US
corporate bank that needed some of those
investment banking service. We both had
a wealth management business. I was I
knew we could save a lot of cost saves.
So the business logic would be
impeccable. Then there's the ability to
execute like can you actually get it
done because you've all seen a lot of
deals where they fall apart. They don't
have management. They don't consolidate
the systems. They have infighting. It
kind of happened at city. Uh and so you
don't effectuate. And then there's the
price. So, I knew we had a Tiffany
brand. Uh, but it it didn't value
because if everything else didn't work
out, I don't think it would have
mattered that much.
>> Interesting. [clears throat] Okay. So,
so
>> I'm going to fast forward a couple
years. It's 2006. You're officially
chairman and CEO of the combined JP
Morgan Chase.
>> And 2006 on Wall Street is like
>> go go go baby. It's like, you know,
1980s all over again.
>> I think you had the same incentives as
everyone else, but you behaved very
differently. Am I missing something? Did
you have the same incentives or
>> you pulled JP Morgan back hard on the
risk side in 2006?
>> I did. So there there were cracks out
there in 2006. May remember the quants.
There started to be a quant problem and
late in 2006. We definitely saw subprime
getting bad and that's I pulled back on
subprime. I I wish I had done more
because if you look what I did, you say,
"Okay, well you saved half the money,
but you would have saved more."
>> You still had some losses.
>> Yeah. But but we also had I'm going to
say less maybe a third of the leverage
of the big investment banks
and a lot more liquidity. So in 2006 I
started to stockpile liquidity and you
know looking at the situation I was
quite worried the leverage if you you
may not remember this but the leverage
because of accounting rules and Basel 3
Basel one investment banks particularly
the banks the big investment banks went
from 12 times leverage to 35 times
leverage
and and it was go- go you know CMOs you
know bridge loans the whole thing like
in ' 07 the bridgebook of Wall Street
was 400 $50 billion. Today it's 40
billion. JP Warren can handle the whole
40 billion today, though we're not the
40 billion today. Uh and they were much
more leveraged deals and a lot of them
fell apart, collapsed and and then of
course and that was before you had the
collapse in the mortgage markets which
really took down a lot of these banks.
>> But but you did have the same incentives
and you had the same access to
information that a lot of these other
folks did, but you didn't blow up. What
explains this? Because usually behavior
follows incentives.
>> Yeah. Well, first of all, if you work
for me, I would tell you I don't care
what the incentive is. Don't do the
wrong thing. And and don't do the wrong
thing to the client. If you treat
yourself, if you're the client, how
would you want to be treated? And I I
had gotten rid of I mentioned that one
risk thing. There were multiple risk
things like that. They were being paid
to take the risk. All of these
investment banks were doing side deals,
private deals, three-year deals, five
year deals. I got rid of almost all of
them.
>> This is for comp senior bankers. And so
today at JP Morgan Chase, there are no,
you know, we do do things, but and I
know some of my partners in the room
here, but we all know about it. There
are no winks, there are no nods, there
no side deals, there's almost no one
paid on a particular thing because if
you're paid on a particular thing, you
can do the wrong thing and meanwhile not
helping the company, you know, manage it
risk or something like that. So we
change the incentive programs and I'm
quite conscious about incentive programs
that they don't create mis, you know,
misbehavior. But it's also very
important. If you're in a company and
you say the incentive program is doing
that, you should tell the company this
incentive plan is not incenting the
right behavior versus via the the
customer. And a lot of it was leverage.
So you if you look at the leverage in
some of these securization books and
mortgage books, if you have 30 times
leverage and you're getting 20% of the
profits, you'll go to 40 times leverage.
It's just going to it's literally will
add, you know, 25% to your bonus. And so
I got rid of the profit pool 20% and the
leverage
>> and I lost some people too in the
meantime.
>> It's funny. Yeah. You know JP Morgan as
part of the system had the same
incentives but you changed the
incentives for
>> team within the company. Okay. All
right. We got to go to 2008.
>> March
>> March 13th
>> 2008.
>> Thursday 2008.
>> Yeah.
>> It's Thursday night. You get a call from
Bear Stern's CEO. The stock closed that
day at $57 a share. It's like 150 a
couple months before. Three days later.
God, I remember it like yesterday. I was
working on Park Avenue in Wall Street. I
remember that night. $2 a share. You're
buying Ver. And to tell us the story.
>> So, I was at AVA on 47th Street. My
parents and my parents favorite
restaurant. My whole family was there.
It happened to be my birthday. Uh I I
don't normally get emergency.
>> Happy birthday.
>> Yeah. And Allan Schwarz, who was the
current CEO, we'd seen their stock go
down. I knew they had some real problems
because we saw their hedge funds and
some of the things that were taking
place there. And he said, "Jamie, I need
$30 billion tonight before Asia opens."
Which I said, "I don't know how to get
$30 billion for you." And have you
called Pollson? Have you called Tim
Gener? Uh, so we all called. I called up
the management team. I went back in. I
probably had a bite and said goodbye and
went back to the office. probably had a
hundred people come in that day, that
night. They all got dressed. They went
back to work. It's emergency. We now
rang all bells for emergency. Bear
Sterns went bankrupt. Spoke to the Fed
about let's just get them to the
weekend. We had one day and we needed a
Saturday and Sunday and we concocted
this loan. So, we couldn't lend the 30
billion and the Fed technically couldn't
lend the 30 billion, but the Fed can
lend to us technically and I can
technically use the collateral of beer.
So that uh so we got the literally a
one-day loan uh and then the next day I
had we had thousands of people come in
due diligence and we went through every
loan, every asset, every balance sheet,
all the derivatives, all the lawsuits,
all the HR policies, like real due
diligence, a two or three day period and
bought the company at that night $2 a
share. Hank Pollson was telling why are
you paying anything for it? I said well
I do have to get shareholder votes and
uh which became
>> because you need bare shareholders to
approve. It was a public deal and the
worst part of it is I was going to get
the lawsuits from the bear holders
>> and I knew that
>> that you didn't pay enough for
>> but but we couldn't let it go bankrupt.
It wasn't like an industrial company I
could buy in bankruptcy. It would have
been gone and the crisis would have just
unfolded. So we paid we paid a billion
dollars for a company that had been
worth uh $20 billion recently. The
building we're in now was worth a
billion dollars on the balance sheet for
zero. And we got the fact we got some
very good people and we got some good
businesses but it was a extremely
painful process. I
>> I've seen estimates that in the fullness
of time after really dealing with
unwinding all the stuff there it cost
you 15 to 20 billion you anyway.
>> It was the it was the 12 billion we
wrote off that didn't cost us. We didn't
really pay for it. And then the
government sued us on the mortgages
which I was quite offended by. Uh,
[laughter]
and I really was I thought it was
>> take this problem and then we'll see.
>> This is this is the government when you
you know the the whatever government you
did a deal with that's not the
government down the road decides I don't
care. We're going to come after you
anyway. So while we kind of saved the
system a lot, we bailed a lot of people
out. They made us pay $5 billion on the
the bad mortgages that bearish tons
done. And that's what made me make the
statement I wouldn't do it again. I
wouldn't put it this way and I don't
know how to say this. I wouldn't really
trust the government again. Okay.
[laughter]
>> Would um I got to I got to ask a
follow-up question to that. Um
[laughter]
it is that a
structural thing just the way that we're
set up with a new administration every
four years.
>> Yeah. They they don't feel obligated to
what the prior administration did. and
you know contract even some contracts
were violated in this thing which I
won't go through uh literally contract I
mean it would have been torturous
interference that had been company to
company but they basically you know
since you operate under their laws you
know they can basically take you down so
you you know I I went to see Eric Holder
trying to settle this mortgage stuff
which we settled I brought my lead
director he expected me to come and be
pounding my chest and uh and I went in
and said Eric I am here to surrender
I cannot fight and I cannot win against
the federal government. You know that a
criminal indictment can sink my company.
I will not do that to my company or my
country. I'm here to surrender. Before I
surrender, I want you to know the
circumstances by which we bought Wamu
and Bear Sterns because 80% of what
they're asking for related to be and
WAMU, not JP Morgan Chase. And I went
through the whole thing, you know, uh he
said, "Thank you. uh I'll take in
consideration but they never gave me the
counting so I don't know what they did
uh and so it is what it is it was quite
painful uh but got to move on
>> we'll move on from this we won't keep
you
>> well we'll move on for the specifics
[laughter]
David's
>> we do I do have one more thing um
whether you would have done it again
wouldn't have you know very clear it was
not a great deal on paper for JP Morgan
but as we look at it Now, the
reputational value that JP the
reputation of JP Morgan now is unlike
any other in the industry.
>> Part of why you're worth $800 billion is
that reputation. A lot of what created
that reputation
>> was was that weekend.
>> Yeah. I you know, if you're Yes. And I
know I say I wouldn't trust the
government. If the government called me
up, they did they did it again. If they
called me again and said, "We need your
help to save our country." Well, of
course, I'm going to I'm a patriot that
way. I just I would just try to come up
with some ways to avoid the punishment
by the next president. [laughter]
>> I would come up with something like
>> you need you know what you need like uh
the version of the merger agreement with
JP Morgan Chase where it's like a 75% of
Congress needs to [laughter] vote not to
sue you. Like the default is you're not
going to get sued.
>> All right.
>> All right. So Bear Sterns happens 6
months later you get another phone call.
Wamu is going under. You do buy Wamu.
Contrary to everything we're talking
about with Bearer, Wamu is actually a
great acquisition, right?
>> Yeah. So, this is a lesson about
acquisitions. It's very hard that
remember we bought WAMU a week after
Leman went bankrupt and and most boards
wouldn't have touched that at all
>> because the whole system feels like
>> the whole system was in trouble. But
WAMU put us in California, uh, uh, parts
of Nevada, Arizona, not Arizona,
Georgia, Florida, which we weren't in.
So, think of these really healthy states
and they had, you know, 2,300 branches.
They were and they h they had huge
mortgage problems, but we had looked at
it over and over and over. So, we knew
their mortgage books called and we wrote
off we bought it for
>> this was all before.
>> We bought it for a $30 billion discount
to tangible book value
because they had debt and we left the
debt behind. And so, and that 30 billion
was approximately what the Morris loss
was going to be. So, we bought the
company. Think if we bought a company
clean, we wrote off all that stuff. The
books were clean. And then we did
something unheard of, too. The next day
or two days later, I went in the market,
raised another 11 billion of equity.
>> Yeah.
>> Which I didn't really need. But again,
this is my conservatism. Uh I was like,
you know what, this can get even worse.
And and I don't want to be short capital
liquidity. So we, you know, we raised
that to make sure our balance sheet was
just as strong as it was after WAMU that
it was before WAMU.
>> And you already had the reputation to
pull this off, right? I I'm imagining in
the worst month of the financial crisis,
who can go out and raise 11 billion of
equity.
>> Yeah,
>> people trust you.
>> Well, yeah, we knew a lot of the
shareholders and you earn your trust
over time with shareholders and, you
know, we explained we we gave them a
quick little presentation over, you
know, uh uh yeah, and a lot of them
stepped up and said, "This is great." We
also know we can execute it because
behind the bear sterns people forget the
work is the next day you got 50,000
people consolidating you know 5,000
applications branches compensation
programs uh you know settlement programs
you know payment systems it's a lot of
work but we obviously have the
capability to do that and we have the
capability to do wamu I think we
finished the wamu consolidations in nine
months all of them so that within nine
months they were all in the same systems
which allows you to start doing a better
job in customer service uh and things
like that. So this fortress balance
sheet strategy and raising this equity
capital and you know having additional
margin of safety and conservative
accounting in retrospect it seems like
the obvious right strategy for running a
large financial institution. Why wasn't
everyone else copying it? H have people
changed and does everyone else run their
banks like this now? I think people the
people are more conservative today. I
think regulars are more conservative
today. But again, I go back to people
get involved in aggressive accounting.
Uh they don't look at stressing their
own bank in a real way. Uh you know, you
saw people take too much interest rate
risk, too much credit exposure, too much
optionality risk and and or or sometimes
it's new products. So if you look at the
financial services, very often it's the
new products that blow up. It takes a
while. They haven't been through a
cycle. And you you had that with
equities way back in 1929. You had it
with options. You had it with equity
derivatives. You had it with mortgages.
You had it with G. Even Ginnie Mays at
one point blew up even though they're
government guaranteed.
>> Arguably, you had it with quant and with
LT.
>> It happened with Quant. It happened with
leverage lending. And then people then
become more rational how they run these
balance sheets, how they think through
the risk.
>> So So I have to ask you, is this private
credit today?
>> I I don't really think so. I I don't
think it's $2 trillion. It's grown
rapidly. That's an issue. But what
happens the other thing about Mark is
there's some very good actors in it who
know what they're doing. Customers like
the product. So I always say, well, the
customers like it and but there also
people who don't know what they're doing
and it's grown rapidly. So there it may
there may be something in there would
become a problem one day. I don't think
it's systemic. So that two trillion the
mortgage market when the time it blew up
was I'm going to say n trillion and a
trillion dollars was lost. This is you
know and it was trillion dollars was
also in high trillion dollar back then.
>> Yeah. A lot of these private a lot of
these private credits are not leveraged
like that but doesn't mean there won't
be problems but it's it's slightly
different but we you got but you look at
the whole system there are other things
out there that you know are leveraged
that you know can cause problems and of
course people take secret leverage in
ways you don't necessarily see it. What
what are some of these in your mind that
are potentially problematic today?
>> Well, I look I I look at when you look
at asset price a rather high. Now, I'm
not saying that's bad, but if we if if
today pees were 15 as opposed to 23. I
say that's a lot less risk, a lot less
to fall and you have some upside. I
would say at 23 there's not a lot of
upside and there's a long way to fall.
And that's true with credit spread. So,
and we look at we stress test
everything. We do like a 100 stress
tests a week, you know, and to make sure
we can handle a wide variety of things.
And then the other thing and the biggest
risk to me is cyber. I mean, I I think
this cyber stuff is, you know, we we're
very good at it. We work with all the
government agencies. They would say that
Jmore, we spend $800 million a year or
something on it. We educate people on
it. We just do. But it is you're talking
about grids and communications companies
and water uh uh and even part of the
military establishment. The the
protections are not what you need if we
ever get any kind of war where cyber is
involved and China is very good at it
and so is Russia but Russia is mostly
criminal which is slightly different.
>> All right, I'm going to pull us back to
the story. We're going to fast forward
to 2023.
>> We're not really equipped to talk about
Yeah. Russia.
Uh,
>> it's not what we do at acquired, but but
they um
>> Silicon Valley Bank.
>> Yeah.
>> And First Republic both fail. You're
there again. Did you see it coming? What
lessons did you learn from how 2008 went
that you could apply in 2023? Obviously,
you bought First Republic.
>> Yeah. So, Silicon Valley Bank, you know,
they both Silicon Valley Bank for did
some very good stuff, but they they both
had something something unique that we
didn't know at the time. I'm going to
call them concentrated deposits, not
uninsured because people have misdained
that concentrated. And so a lot of
venture capital, what happened with
Silicon Valley Bank and kind of First
Republic is some of these large venture
capital companies,
call them there, hundreds of them, maybe
a thousand, told their constituent
clients that they invested in who all
bankked in Silicon Valley and First
Republic, the banks aren't safe, get
out. And they all removed their deposits
in Silicon Valley Bank, I think they had
200 billion deposits, 200 billion,
100red billion in one day.
And that caused the problem. But they
also had other problems. They didn't
have proper liquidity. Uh they didn't
have their collateral post at the Fed
and they had taken too much interest
rate exposure. And the interest rate
exposure was hidden by accounting. It
was called held to maturity. But you
don't have to mark even treasuries to
market. And I always hated held to
maturity because uh but it gives you
better regulatory returns and stuff like
that. But when that held to maturity the
t if you said what's the tangible book
value of one of these banks and you said
it was 100. Well, all of a sudden it was
50 if you just marked that one thing to
market and and there's now here now
you're into judgment land. At what point
if you saw a bank where just that one
mark had the tangible book value dropped
to 40 or 30 cents to the dollar would
you panic? I would have said that's too
much risk and you know the regulators
helped us because they said rates are
going to stay low forever. So these
banks bought a lot of 3% mortgages and
when you know 3% mortgage when rates
went up to 5% you know worth 60 cents on
the dollar or 50 cents and that was it.
And so both those had they took too much
interest exposure known to management
and it was known to the regulators and
you know uh and fixable. So you know we
we knew about a little bit about Silicon
Valley Bank. We were trying to compete
in that area. So we learned a lot
afterwards about how to do a better job
for that ecosystem of venture capital.
We have a whole campus in Powalto now.
We've hired 500 innovation bankers. We
cover venture capital companies. We're
not as good as they are yet. We're we're
going to get there because we're we're
organized slightly differently. And we
knew First Republic. We were watching
it. I had called Janet Yellen that I
said that that company's in trouble and
one or two others. If you want to, we'll
take a look. We could probably buy it
and eliminate the problem. They waited a
little bit too long. It was kind of a
little melting ice cube. Uh but you
could imagine the day we bought it, you
never heard about it again. We hedged
all their exposures in a couple of days
and you know we merged everything in. We
wrote everything down and but we did get
some good stuff from we actually got
some good people. You know the normal
thing in acquisition is they're terrible
get rid of them or they failed but we
also looked at what they did how they
dealt with clients maybe clients here.
They did a great job with high net worth
clients single point of contact you know
conscious services. So now if you go
down Madison Avenue you see things
called JP Morgan Financial Center.
That's your first JP Morgan branded
consumer effort, right?
>> Yes.
>> Because it's it's kind of based on that.
Then when you walk in there, we know
your small business, we know your
mortgage, we know your consumer banking,
we can get you travel, we can do a whole
bunch of different stuff. So very high
level uh services. I think we have 20 of
them now. But I'd love it. And if it
works, you know, in 20 years, we have
300. And so these things are
opportunities and I hope it works. You
know, you don't always know they're
going to work for a fact, but but so far
so good.
>> All right. So we're we're effectively
caught up to today and if we're trying
to and now we've got the whole story.
We've got a lot of context. Obviously
let didn't go into every detail but if
we're now trying to answer yes if we're
now trying to answer the question how
did you separate from the pack? Why did
you become a completely different animal
than your whole competitive set? What
are the things in your mind that led to
this success?
>> What we do is the same thing that a
community bank does other than
investment bank global investment
banking. Okay. So if you walk into a
small community bank, they know your
business account. They know your
consumer account. They usually have a
trust company. They used to m they used
to call it trust. They'd manage your
private affairs. They'd set up a trust
for you and they do stuff like that. And
their CRM is up here. They don't need a
Salesforce CRM because they know
everyone in town. And they didn't do
big-time global investment banking. But
the strategy, those businesses fit
together. They feed each other. And so
does investment banking. A lot of our
middle market clients use investment
banking products. A lot of our consumer
clients use some FX. So all of our
businesses feed each other. There's no
extraneous. We got rid of everything
that didn't fit a strategy. And then you
start building client businesses and
client services, Fortress balance sheet,
fortress accounting, all those various
things. And and you know I and I've
always talked about
>> so it's it's it's holding a portfolio of
things that actually feed each other.
they actually fit. Whereas, you know,
City had consumer consumer finance, that
didn't fit. Life insurance, that didn't
fit. Property C, that didn't they
eventually got rid of them all. Sandy
just wanted to do more of them. You
know, he bought American General, which
did uh truck leasing for God's sake. I
mean, and you once you get involved
these things, it's hard for people to
understand the risk in each one of these
businesses when But all of ours fit. I
don't like hobbies. I don't like things,
you know, we made and we've made plenty
of mistakes because you you have to try
and test things and then you're always
investing for the future. That
investment is always people, branches,
and technology. And that's true whether
they're investment banking people or
consumer bank people or opening consumer
branches or I think Doug Doug Pen is
here and Troy Roarback who run the
global investment bank but they've
opened you know commercial banking
branches all over Europe and I think you
were telling me I mean it's it's it's
going great you know and it's feeding
all other parts of the company so just
sticking to your knitting constantly
investing you know not overreacting to
the market you know markets are like
accordians and then sometimes you know
it's a if you're strong when others
aren't you have a chance to buy things
you want to buy and then always look at
the world from the point of view of the
consumer. What do you want? How do you
want it? How do you want to get it? Can
we provide it to you? Uh uh in a way
that makes sense for us too. You know,
not going for the last dollar and not
nothing like that. And so uh and
building teams of people, you know, our
people are curious and smart. They have
heart. They have salt. They give a damn
about uh you know, the guards in the
company and the receptionists and uh you
know, it's not just about the big- time
bankers and people pounding their chest.
you know, we don't try not to put up
with that. And we have big-time bankers.
They are exceptional, you know, and uh
but the company, you know, serves the
clients and we have uh and I think the
clients know that
>> when when you really dig in to start
analyzing JP Morgan's financials, you
kind of see this one thing that jumps
right out at you, which is the
efficiency ratio. For every dollar that
you make compared to your competitors,
you get to keep 15 cents more of that
dollar as profit. It's not hard to see
how that compounds and how that allows
reinvestments. And why is your
efficiency ratio so much better than
competitors? It's it is literally
continuously investing and gaining
business at the margin and not stopping
and not stop starting. And the thing is
the thing about margins too is that we
we have that margin while investing a
lot. It's much easier to have that
margin and just you know we can cut
billions of dollars of marketing out
tomorrow. we can stop opening branches
and save a billion dollars next year. We
could do a lot of things. Your margins
will go up, your growth will go down,
your long-term margins will probably get
worse. Uh so we kind of look right
through the cycle and we look at the
actual economics what we do, not the
accounting of what we do. Uh and you
know, we have, you know, we've built it
over time. You know, we have great
people and great products and there
there's some secret sauce I'm not gonna
tell you about. We do investor day and
we tell everyone everything and I'm
sitting there watching my I never do
presentations. I'm watching them do the
presentations. I'm saying, "Oh god,
we're just giving away too many secrets
here." But [laughter] but
>> so there's secrets as to why.
>> Well, you know, I saw Howard Schultz
here before, you know, and I'm not
supposed to say that probably.
[laughter]
>> It's okay.
>> But no, but you look what look what he
built over the years, you know, the
consistency, the curiosity, the heart,
the, you know, branch by branch
products. It's just always doing that,
knowing you're going to make mistakes,
but building the culture that just kind
of plows through that. And you all know
I I do use sport. Sports is a great
analogy. If you have a a sport team with
a bunch of real jerks on it, are they
going to be a great team?
Almost never. You know, if a if the team
members aren't giving it their their
best every day during practice, you look
at Tom Brady, every day at practice, he
worked hard. You know, if people are not
giving their best, how you're going to
have a great team. And it's not that
different in business. The difference in
business, you can BS about it all the
time. You can make up stories. But in
sports, you see it, you know, on the
playing field that do they have the
team? Do they play together? They don't
even have to be friends. They have to
practice, know their teams. And so, I do
think companies have that. It's like a
sauce that works. You've seen it lots of
different companies, you know, not just
JP Morgan Chase.
>> All right. We've got one last question
for you. Uh if you look back to 2008,
which was a long time ago now,
>> to 2001
>> to 2008, all of the other leaders that
were involved in that era have long
since retired. I mean, I think many
folks within JP Morgan Chase have long
since retired since then.
It seems like you're working as hard as
ever and in it as much as ever. Why are
you still here? What keeps you going?
>> Yeah. Uh, so I want to thank my wife
who's here too who suffered through all
this with me all these years and
probably couldn't have done it. Couldn't
have done it without her. Uh, [applause]
I don't look I I I don't know, but I do
believe [laughter]
my my grandparents all Greek immigrants.
>> There we go.
>> My grandparents were all Greek
immigrants who didn't finish high
school. Uh, but there's a Greek ethic,
you know, which I and you don't even
realize you learn it from your parents,
you know, from the ground up. And Judy's
parents, my wife's parents were the
same, which is, you know, have a
purpose, you know, have and that it
could be art, it could be science, it
could be military, it could be business,
it could be it could it could be just
being a great parent, a great teacher,
you know, but have a purpose and then do
the best you can, you know, give it give
it your all. Don't like be one of those
people who's complain all the time, you
know, you give it your best and uh and
then treat everyone properly. everyone,
you know, like I if I and including like
if there was a bully beating up on
someone, you had to stand up for the
someone, you were not allowed to allow a
bully to do it. So how you treat people
what you do and so in in you know my
hierarchy of life, the most important
thing is my family uh still is. The
second thing is my country because I
think this country is the indispensable
nation that brought freedom of speech,
freedom of religion, freedom of
enterprise
uh which we have to teach everywhere we
go about how important it is. I don't
think people fully understand it
sometimes. And then my purpose because
you know they my family doesn't want me
home every day and this is this is my
contribution through this company. I can
help cities, states, schools, companies,
employees, and I I get the biggest kick
out of that. And so, uh, that's what I
do. And as long as I have the energy,
I'm going to do it. I can't imag I'm not
I don't play golf. You know,
[clears throat]
my daughter, one of my daughters said,
"Dad, you need some hobbies." And I
said, "I do. We hanging out with you,
family travel, barbecuing, wine. We now
like whisies and I love read. I love
history. I think history is the greatest
teacher of all time. Hiking. I can't
play tennis anymore because my back, but
those are my hobbies. I don't buy fancy
cars and stuff like that, but this gives
me purpose in life beyond family and
beyond country. Plus, I think this helps
the country. You know, I get to do a lot
of things for our country uh that I just
think are quite meaningful from this
job. And so, when I'm done with this, I
don't know, I'll teach and write. I may
write a book like Andrew Workin did. Uh
I'll do something, but I got to do
something. I'm not going to twiddle my
thumbs and smell the flowers. Um there
are a lot of people who have floated
your name for uh political or policy
roles over the years. There is only one
job that could possibly impact the
country in a bigger scale than you're
currently doing. Do you agree
>> right now? Yeah.
>> Well, that's probably a great place to
[laughter] be.
>> Jamie, thank you so much for joining us.
>> David, Ben, these guys are great, by the
way. So, [applause] thank you.
Jamie Diamond everyone. Thank you.
Appreciate it. Thank you.
Thank you so much. Thank you.
[music]
Who got [music] the truth?
Is it you? Is it you? Is it you? Who got
the truth?
Is it you? [music] Is it you? Is it you?
Only service now connects every corner
of your business. Putting AI to work for
people.
>> Every corner.
>> Every corner. Nick. [music] So Kate in
HR. Hey Kate can focus on people, not
process. Patty in it is using AI agents
to deal with the small stuff so she can
work on the big stuff. AI helps Jim
[music] solve customer problems before
their problems.
>> Oh, so we all work better together.
>> My work here is done. Excuse me, which
way back?
>> I started this brand because [music] I
started being told no, no to my dreams.
>> So, I didn't have any design experience.
I didn't have any business experience,
but I really [music] had a sort of
belief.
>> Running a business is really
challenging, but I love it.
>> This is so wild that I [music] actually
from a dream started a business. We're
Cheekbone Beauty. This is super ceramic.
We [music] have finished that
>> East Side Golf and we're powered by
Shopify.
>> Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back. I'm
Andrew Ross Sorcin and this is a late
night edition of Dealbook Meets Squatbox
Meets Acquired. Please welcome back to
the stage Ben and David.
Gentlemen, [music]
>> uh Andrew,
>> hello.
>> Hello. Hello. Uh it's so great that
you're here. We're we're glad to have
you here. But why are you
>> Yeah, we we've got this whole
>> I'm at the desk here. I'm used to being
behind the desk.
>> But we've got this like late night talk
show with iconic New York company CEOs.
Like we're going to be at the desk.
>> Yeah. I had heard that you might be
doing something with the New York Times
and I grew up there, you know, and so I
just wanted to help you with, you know,
notes, questions, research, whatever you
were you were working on.
>> Yeah. That's why I I I sat down.
>> No, no, I I mean, I think we we got it.
Uh we
>> we did a whole three-hour episode a few
years ago about the New York Times.
>> You don't need me that.
>> But I do I really appreciate you coming,
though. I mean, it means a lot.
>> Okay. If you know so much, can we just
do a little quiz?
>> Yeah, let's do a little quiz.
>> Little New York quiz. Uh we'll have
everybody participate.
Here's a big question for you. Uh what
year was the New York Times founded?
>> 1851.
>> Bingo. Bingo. Bingo.
>> It's top of mind.
>> Okay, that's one. Question two. Who once
defended the New York Times building
from the rooftop with a gun?
>> Yeah. Adolf Ox.
>> Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. That was
the original co-founder of the paper,
Henry Raymond. But Ox gets you style
points. He bought the paper, by the way,
from Raymond. Okay, this one. I wonder
if this whole room is going to know this
one. Uh, what iconic New York location
is named after the New York Times?
>> Oh, Times Square. Of course, we have a
billboard there. And then final
question, who is the most iconic CEO in
the New York Times company's modern
history? And that person might be
backstage as we speak.
>> We know this one.
>> Yes, we do. New York City. Please
welcome the CEO of the New York Times
company, Meredith Copit Levian. Heat.
Heat.
[music]
>> [music]
[applause]
>> That was fun.
>> A huge thank you to Andrew Ross and
everybody Andrew Ross. [applause]
>> I'll go anywhere Andrew Rosin goes.
>> And he is out late for a taping at 6
a.m. on CNBC. So,
>> got to go get some sleep.
>> I think he is. I think he is.
>> Well, Meredith, it is great to have you
here today. Uh, if there is one acquired
episode in the canon that is
quintessentially iconically New York,
it's the New York Times company, of
course. And you guys, you're killing it.
Uh, as we talked about in our episode,
in 2008, the company was on the brink of
death. You had sold your headquarters
building. And here, in the few short
years since then, you are the largest
digital subscription newspaper in the
entire world. You are the only
standalone global newspaper company
left, market cap of almost 10 billion,
an all-time high.
>> Publicly traded in
>> publicly traded. Things are going great.
>> Is that a That's
>> Is that a question?
>> Is that what [laughter] So tonight I
mean,
>> keep going. Keep going.
>> We just You just sit there. We'll just
talk about you.
>> Uh so tonight, what we want to do, you
know, it's been four years since our
2021 episode. We want to ask you about a
bunch of things that have happened since
then sort of as an update for the
acquired audience and the acquired
Canon. So, first, how is the
subscription business going and what has
stayed the same and what's changed since
that big 2014 innovation report that
changed everything?
>> Um, well, thanks for having me. I'm so
delighted to be here with you guys. Um,
it's going well. It's going well. I
think where you left off, we had about 5
million subscribers in 2021. We are
closing in now on 12 million and the
company is growing as you described.
It's growing revenue, it's growing
profit. I think more importantly it's
growing in its journalistic impact. It's
growing in its its cultural impact and
we really look out and see sort of
growth possibility in in all directions.
Um every week now 50 to 100 million
people are coming to the times website
and apps. some 20 million or so people
listen to our podcasts and read our
newsletters. We've got like 150 million
people who've registered with us and
counting that number is still growing.
Millions of people use it every day. So
that all feels like like real growth
possibility. Um you ask about 2014. And
I'd say that's the year where we set on
the course to to kind of a long-term
strategy about being essential in
people's lives. Back then, print was
still the lion share. It was still the
dominant engine of the business. And we
were we were still doing great at the
journalism, but I will say we were
getting our clocks cleaned by digitally
native upstart journalism companies at
building a big audience for that
journalism. So I think you asked me
what's different now. I would say one
print is well the newspaper is well
inside of 30% of the business. Um we've
got a huge engaged audience as I just
described.
>> Wait, the physical newspaper is still
almost 30% of the business.
>> It's well inside. It's probably 25. But
yeah. Yeah. And by the way, it's going
to be around a long time. People love
it. Um, the thing that I think I, you
know, thi think you're gonna we're going
to talk about, but we've got a much
wider product set now in every way. More
coverage, more topics, more formats. We
show up in people's lives in in new and
different ways. And I think maybe the
last thing I'll say is culturally we
sort of found our way to go from playing
defense to playing offense. You know, we
we were defined back in 2014 by this big
question. Could we transform out of
being a newspaper company and I think
now we're defined by our ambition for
what is all that the New York Times and
journalism broadly can be and do in
people's lives.
>> So what is the strategy then? You've
expanded well beyond news. There's
games, there's sports, there's the wire
cutter,
>> cooking cooking, recipes. means it's
subscriptions to things beyond news.
>> It feels like in a lot of ways you guys
have actually recreated what the
newspaper was back in the day. Like it
wasn't just news when you got a you know
stack of newsprint every day or every
Sunday delivered. It was lots of things.
It was comics. It was shopping. It was
classified.
>> I would sort of describe it as you are
the largest first party content company
by subscriber count in the world. I mean
what other you're it's it's more than a
newspaper now. Am I thinking about that
right?
>> Yeah. Um the the easiest way to think
about it is we are aiming to be the
essential subscription for curious
people everywhere who want to understand
and engage with the world. And there's
there's sort of three ways we're going
about that. One, we want to be the
world's best news destination. Hard
stop. Um, two, and you're pushing on
this, um, through building and buying,
we, you know, have these marketleading
lifestyle products and we want those
products to help people make the most of
their lives and passions. And we have
put all that together in like a
connected product experience or bundle
so that the New York Times is valuable
in your life, whatever is going on.
>> So, build or buy. I mean, it sounds
really good to have all this other
stuff. Often these
expansions fail at businesses.
Acquisitions fail. Oh, we're going to
launch a cooking section or a local that
just fails.
>> Comparison shopping.
>> Why Why do you have what five, six,
seven expansions now that are working?
What's what's
>> Well, they've been a combination of
building and buying, but I would say um
we've in my time at the Times, there are
three companies that we've bought that
three things we've acquired that have
gone really well because they've they
hang from that deliberate strategy I
just described. The Wire Cutter, which
is like a modern-day Consumer Reports,
product reviews. um The Athletic, which
um has, you know, the to our knowledge
the world's largest sports newsroom at
550 journalists and counting. And then a
little thing you might have heard of
called Wordle, um which we actually
acquired the same week as The Athletic,
which is very very
>> 50 million, single digit million.
>> Well, we might have to do our greatest
price difference between the two. Let
let me say the thing that sort of
unifies all of them. These are um these
are experiences that sit in giant
spaces. Um so there's a big market, you
know, for sports, for games, for for
shopping advice, and for recipes. Um so
that's that's one. Two, I would say
there are things where we felt like the
Times could do something rare and really
valuable. Um I talk about the size of
that athletic newsroom. And by the way,
the athletic audience is the fastest
growing audience on the times because
that just like if you're a sports fan,
where are you getting your, you know,
your really good hardcore in the locker
room sports journalism from? And then
they're also in spaces where people are
doing something all the time. You're
shopping people people shop all the
time. Wire cutter drove something like a
billion dollars of of commerce last
year. And the the real magic of all of
this is that the whole is kind of more
than the sum of the parts. Each one each
part of the portfolio and our news
coverage kind of feed each other. So,
you know, it's just as likely for
someone to come in to play a game and
then read a story about the war in
Ukraine as it is the other way around. H
>> we were talking a few weeks ago about
the importance of
first party owned and operated you
consuming New York Times company content
on New York Times company owned sites we
feel the same way please do that yes
[laughter]
>> uh in the age of AI
>> it's interesting right that you are a
human curated company everything that
the New York Times does is human curated
>> absolutely But a lot of the people in
this room, they turn to AI to do a lot
of the things that you just described
and yet business is going great. How do
you think about that?
>> Yeah. Well, um, let me say a a few
things about the times and about AI. The
first one is that we firmly believe that
journalism, particularly journalism
about, you know, important things going
on in the world is first and foremost a
human endeavor. It is by humans. It is
for humans. you're not going to send you
might send a drone, but what they are
going to find on the front line of a war
versus a human being talking to people
who've just been impacted, I think those
are just like two different things. Um,
so that's one. Two, we um feel really
optimistic that AI has the potential to
be like a force multiplier to everything
we do. And what does that look like? It
looks like making our journalism much
more accessible to people. Um, I'm a
runner and I now take in um, a lot of
the New York Times text articles
listening to an automated voice read
them to me most most mornings and we're
just at at the beginning of that. We
have journalists who are using AI in
some instances to comb through like huge
troves of public documents to to get to
a story in a in in a better in a better
way. And I could go on and on, but the
the the idea is AI sort of appended to
3,000 human beings doing journalism,
making games, recipes, and so forth.
It's the combination of those those
things. And the last thing I'll say is
I'm very optimistic about AI assuming
that you know the journalism we spend a
ton of end games and everything else we
do spend a ton of money on and work
really hard at um through human beings.
You know, I believe it's going to be
great as long as that doesn't all get
misappropriated
by the large language model makers. Can
we ask you about the Open AI lawsuit?
You're
>> suing OpenAI at Microsoft for
>> training without permission on New York
Times content.
>> Why?
>> Why? Well, what [laughter] why did you
why did you decide to file the lawsuit?
>> Yeah. Um listen, the first thing to say
is that um these companies making large
language models are spending hundreds of
billions of dollars on compute and
energy and on talent. We've seen lots of
stories about that in recent days. And
so we believe they should also be
spending money that equates to fair
value exchange on the content um that
they have built their models on. So
that's that's one. Um [applause]
we believe the law is on our side. Um
and by the way, not just the side of
journalism. This is not just an issue
for news organizations, although that is
pretty important issue to society. This
is an issue for anybody who makes
creative work, anyone who makes IP. And
I want to say that like America having a
flourishing community of creators, IP
makers, that's like foundational to our
competitiveness, really important to how
we we show up in the world. This is a
big broad issue. We think the law is on
our side and we um have a lawsuit as
you've just described and we are also um
you know sort of eager to partner with
companies when the terms are right and
make sense and as we've done we just did
a partnership with Amazon and we did
that because we saw it as having
sustainable fair value exchange and
giving the times control over how its
journalism and other content would be
would be
So, there's a thing that a lot of people
probably, especially in this audience,
have in their mind that wasn't really a
thing yet when we did our episode in
2021, which is this perceived anti-tech
bias or anti- business bias of the New
York Times. When people bring that up to
you, you would say, "What?"
>> First, I'm not sure a lot of people have
that in mind. I'll I'll challenge that
that premise, but I will say we don't.
It's not a thing. Um the the you know
the job of the New York Times is to
pursue the truth wherever it may lead
and sometimes that's to uncomfortable
places. And we do that job kind of first
and most by reporting. What is
reporting? Reporting is we're going to
unearth new facts that we think and
others think matter in the world to a
lot of people. And it's worth saying
because I do get asked about bias all
the time on on any topic. It's worth
saying we put an enormous amount of
effort and care and money and method
into trying to reduce bias in every way
we can in the process. We have a giant
standards operation that really says
this is this is an okay source or or
this isn't that really says yes, these
are verifiable facts or they aren't.
Every story at the New York Times is
edited by at least two people. I could
go on and on about all all the ways we
sort of hold ourselves to account. And
on tech in particular, I want to say
that these many of the tech companies,
the big tech companies that shape the
information ecosystem have a level of
kind of power and influence and the
potential to drive profound change in
people's lives in a way that governments
or or nations might. So we we cover them
accordingly. And by the way, we cover
them really broadly. We did a package on
AI and just like a view from today of
what is it going to do in people's
lives. And there was as much in there
about all the great things AI is going
to do. And I do think the more we expose
people to reporting, which we do on the
daily and in lots of other formats, the
more they trust us and the more they see
the lengths that people like Andrew
Osorin go to to to really help you
understand a really I mean just to
underscore like the shift that's
happened in the last 15 years. I mean
since the financial crisis where tech
was one industry among many and now is
responsible for the majority of the
market cap in this country in this
world. all trillion dollar
>> it's a big it's a big reason why people
listen to acquired so like we you know
we feel it too um
>> on that topic of media evolution of
media close to home for us you're home
of some of the biggest podcasts in the
world
>> like how either podcasting specifically
or all the different media you're doing
beyond the written word like how do you
think about delivering journalism today
>> yeah um I was once standing I started
the times 12 years ago and I was
standing with Andrew Russin in a green
room. I think I was there as his
handler. He must have been like going to
talk to an advertiser. And I grabbed him
right before he walked on stage and I
said, "Don't talk about the paper." Like
we're not we're not just a paper
company. And I would say that is how we
think about and approach like whatever
the delivery mechanism is. If it's text,
if it's video, if it's audio, we're just
thinking, how do we bring our work and
engage the widest possible audience and
podcasts, the thing that you do have
just been great for the times and doing
that, we've got lots of hit shows and
what they, you know, the daily, the Ezra
Klein show, our new show, which is sort
of like the new rights answer to the
Ezra Klein show, interesting times with
Ross Det,
which I think is kind kind of similar to
you. What are those shows doing for us?
One, they are deepening the engagement
we have with people who already love the
Times. They're making many, many, many
new people love the Times. And I think
really importantly, they're building
they're helping us build a different
relationship with the people we're doing
this coverage and making these products
for. You know, when I meet someone um
whose podcast I listen to as I'm doing
with you guys, I think you're my running
partners because I've spent like hours
on a run listening to the two of you
talk. And I think it's just a different
kind of kind of relationship. Let me say
this about the daily when we figured
this out early in its life, but it's
still the case today. When a reporter
goes on the daily and tells the story um
that they've just published on the on
the homepage in the paper, um they're
doing two things. They're talking um
they're telling you about the story in a
more casual way, almost like a friend
guiding you through the news, but
they're also exposing you to how that
story came to be. And that is
fundamentally doing the thing I talked
about before. It's trust building. It's
showing the people showing the people
listening like this is how me at the
lengths we went to to present this topic
in a fair and like deeply reported way.
>> All right.
>> Can I say one more thing about podcasts?
The banter
>> talk about podcast all night.
>> The banter is as in many cases I think
this about you guys. I think this about
hard fork which is our show about AI.
It's New York Times reporter Kevin Roose
and platformers Casey Newton. You're
gonna I learn I'm running a company that
has to contend with AI. I listen to
every episode and you know what? Like I
love their banter. The banter is like
entertainment and it makes me take in
what they're saying about AI even better
because it it's like pushing into
entertaining me as it's instructing me.
>> That's what y'all are doing.
>> We love the banter, too.
>> Yeah. We we think about it as
conversational storytelling where can
you tell a narrative through two people
talking?
>> That's right. That's right. And the
other thing podcast did for the times
and you see this now if you go on our
app and watch reporter video.
>> I think it taught us how to sort of
break free of like the tyranny of how a
news article had to be presented in a
newspaper. you can talk in a much more
informal style and I actually think
that's how news articles are still
incredibly important but that has even
spilled into the text news articles that
we that the style of getting people
information is much wider. All right.
So, we have something that we've
prepared. If you're open to
>> coming back,
>> he uh I [laughter] believe he's back in
his seat. We can we can [clears throat]
check. Uh
>> I wonder who you have there. I'm scared.
>> We started this conversation talking
about games.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh Wle has taken an enormous amount of
my time.
>> We would like to take some of your time.
>> Listeners, we asked the team at the New
York Times to create a custom Wordle
themed around something specific to
acquired. Are you game?
>> I am game. I think I think I brought my
glasses. I didn't know if it would get
>> I think this is the first live Wordle
from radio.
>> And I do want to say I would have rather
played Connections. I'm [laughter] so
much better and faster at it. So much
better. I'm not very good at Wordle. My
mom smokes me on it every time I
>> We'll give you a hint to get started.
The word is very deeply related to a
canonical acquired episode.
>> Okay. All right. [laughter] In in other
words, whatever your favorite starter
word is a good place to start.
>> And can they see what I'm doing?
>> I think so. I mean, pretty nifty camera
back there.
>> There we go. All right.
>> All right. All right. I'm using the
starter word I always use, which I'm
sure twothirds of the room uses.
>> All right. How'd you do?
>> And that sucked.
>> That really sucked. [laughter]
>> Sorry.
>> Okay. I'm going to go to another word
that I told myself I was going to use if
you made me do this.
>> Great.
Oh, it's that's a tough draw.
>> And then I'm going to go to a word.
Let's see if it's the right number of
letters that gets at how I feel about
this.
>> Hey. [laughter] All right. We'll start
giving you some hints. It is a person's
last name who is arguably the founder of
a company of one of our
>> of the company.
>> Of the company. Yeah. Yes.
>> Okay.
>> It is one of the world's largest
>> It's nice. It's not Yeah. Keep going.
Keep going. is the the predecessor
company of one of the world's largest
retailers.
>> Is the name I think you just gave it to
me. Hold on.
>> Oh,
>> I would never have gotten that. I would
never have gotten that without him.
>> We had to work.
>> Okay. Can we just say go me on Bripe?
>> That really helped. All right.
>> All right, everyone. Meredith Copit
Levier.
>> Lots of fun. Thank you. So fun.
[music]
Thank you so much. Terrific.
>> That was fun. [music]
>> Great to see Meredith tonight.
>> It was It was also really great of the
New York Times company to make a whirl
for us. Great to get some acquired
trivia in there. So, speaking of
acquired trivia,
before we bring out our next guest, we
want to play a little uh game of our own
here with some audience participation.
So, [cheering]
we have a question for all of you here
tonight. See if we can we can stump
folks in the audience. What is the most
listened to episode in Acquired's
history? In our 10y year history, which
episode?
>> Feel free to shout out your answer.
Oh, great.
>> Uh, I'm looking for someone I know. Is
that Is that Christina Cassiopo?
>> Hi, Ben. Hi, David.
>> Hey, Christina.
>> Christina, great to see you.
>> For anyone who doesn't know, Christina
is the uh co-founder of Vanta and I
think a nine-year listener of Acquired.
>> Yeah. OG. Thank you.
>> All right, Christina.
My stripes. Um, is it the Hermes
episode?
>> That is a very good guess.
definitely up there, but it is not
currently in the number one spot.
>> I'm hearing other folks who might want
to guess.
>> Let's see.
>> There's a hand. Is that Ben Climber?
>> Hey, guys.
>> Hey, Ben. Good to see you.
>> You too, guys. Happy to be here.
>> All right. So, Ben, for anybody who
doesn't know, was indispensable on the
Rolex episode. Uh, he's the founder of
Hodinki. He's like a world expert on
watches. Good to see you, Ben.
>> Thank you, guys. [applause] Thank you.
Um, so it's it's it's got to be Rolex,
right?
>> It's very close.
>> Very close. Neck and neck. Ben, I don't
think so. I I think it's the episode
that I was in. [laughter]
>> Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. [applause]
I think it's Starbucks.
So far.
Wait, wait, wait. Who is that? Is that
Jamie saying so far?
J Jamie, we'll be reporting numbers to
you tomorrow.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. [laughter]
>> You're not competitive or anything.
>> All right. Well, Howard, yes, you are
right. It is our biggest episode ever.
The Starbucks episode where Howard was a
guest with 1.3 million downloads. Give
it up for Howard Schultz, everyone.
[cheering and music]
>> [applause]
>> We'll ask the same question next year
and you know we'll see. [laughter]
All right. Our final guest for the
evening is a CEO who despite us having
not yet covered his current company on
acquired. I think over the course of his
over 60-year career has led more
companies in and around the acquired
universe than just about any other human
being in history. We've got
>> Fox,
>> ABC,
Paramount,
Expedia,
>> Yep.
>> Tinder and Match.com.
>> QVC and the Home Shopping Network.
>> Ticket Master.
>> Ticket Master. I mean, this list is
going on.
>> He's also one of New York's most
legendary citizens who along with his
wife Dion von Fenberg has given so much
to this city, including the Highline and
most recently the Little Island. Please
welcome the chairman of IA, the one and
only Barry Diller.
[music and applause]
>> Thank you, Barry. Great [music] to see
you.
>> Why did she get a pillow and I don't?
[laughter]
>> She asked for one. She asked for one.
>> Well, okay.
>> Do you want one? It'll be on my rider
next time.
>> I think your rider was water.
>> Yeah, that's it.
>> So, pretty simple.
>> Uh,
>> you drove yourself here tonight. Is that
correct?
>> Uhhuh. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Of course I
did.
>> Wow. I
>> drive everywhere in New York.
>> How did you find parking?
>> Uh, I just find some empty space
even.
>> No,
it usually has a fire hydrant
or other barriers and I scoot myself in.
I guess if you give an island to New
York, then do do you get to do you get a
special part?
>> No, no, no. I get tickets.
[laughter]
>> I get those tickets.
>> Oh, well, very
>> someday I'll pay for them. [laughter]
>> I think you have had one of the most
incredible careers in American history.
I mean, you have touched the lives of
every single person in this room. Uh,
you recently wrote your memoir, Who
Knew, which is excellent. The first
chapter of your career was in Hollywood.
And when you started in in 1961
in the mail room at William Morris, this
was still like old Hollywood. The studio
system,
what was it like back then? Feels like
1861, but when I think [laughter] of it
now, well, I mean, it we did have
typewriters and there was like, you
know, there was some tech involved, but
it was a it was a time when there were a
lot of bigger than-l life personalities.
Uh, the kind of old mogul that uh
founded Hollywood were still they were
kind of on their last feeble-ish legs,
but I still got to know a few of them.
And so
>> Wasserman Sid Shinberg.
>> Well, yeah. Even old Dar Daryl Xanic who
founded 20th Century Fox and I met him
like a few blocks down the road when he
was kind of in his doage. He had this
huge like 20 foot cigar and I sat in a
in a proje in a theater Fox's theater
projection room which had like 500 seats
and he I was at ABC. I was a young
executive at ABC and I was buying movies
to show on television. And Xanic, who
had uh all of these girlfriends that he
could only keep as girlfriends so long
as he put them in these rotten, horrible
Fox movies. And the only way he could
put them in these Fox movies is if I
would buy them. [laughter] So
>> Oh, great. There I sat with Daryl Xanic
and his smoking cigar and me watching uh
a scene from the most awful movie you
could ever imagine.
>> So yeah, I got those guys.
>> Wow. Wow. [laughter]
>> As I as I was reading your book and
thinking about your career, you're one
of these rare people that uh started in
media and was successful in media and
then jumped and became even more
successful in technology. I mean, that's
a very sort of rare chasm. It's an odd
passive.
>> Yeah. And when we say you started in
media, you started in the mail room at
the William Morris Agency, which is not
a thing in tech at all. No, tech doesn't
have mail rooms.
>> There ain't no mail rooms left anywhere.
>> But [laughter] at this time, well,
probably not. But the great thing it had
was it had a file room when there were
actually digital files. big room,
>> physical files,
>> physical big, you know, I don't know,
file cabinets, like 50 of them.
>> And I basically read from A to Z. I read
the entire file room when I starting
when I was 19 until I was 22. So I I had
because William Morris was the oldest
and biggest talent agency. I' been in
business 70 years. So I had the entire
history of the entertainment business
that I got to read. How could you do
better than that? This is like you had
the the email, you know, archives of of
all the executives, right, in Hollywood,
>> but not email.
>> But I mean, it wasn't email
negotiations.
>> There was no emails. There was such
thing as emails. There was no E. There
was mail.
And and so I it jumped out at me as I
was reading the book because it felt
like the thing that David and I have
stumbled on with Acquired is immerse
yourself in a massive amount of primary
research. And the human brain is good at
finding patterns in that. And it seems
like you learned the entertainment
business kind of the same way. You just
let all these messages and files wash
over you until it kind of clicked. I
understand the way this industry works.
Is that right?
>> Well, yeah. You got to read I mean I got
to read literally the history of Elvis
Presley from the moment he recorded his
first song through his entire career and
and every other person in the entire
spectrum of entertainment. So you can't
get a better foundation. It depends of
course what you use it for or whatever.
There's no school you could go to that
would ever teach you that.
>> Yeah. So your your next chapter after
the William Morris Agency is ABC.
>> Yes.
>> And you're working you know this this
era 60s and 70s ABC is this crazy talent
magnet for a lot of people. Think like
Runaridge, Bob Iger. What made ABC this
like
>> ABC was the number three? There were
three networks. They had 100% of the
viewing. So about 100 million people
divided
never divided equally by three. ABC was
the was the youngest by and actually at
that time probably 20 years or so and it
was the least established and so it it
was run like a candy store. So if you
wanted responsibility you could just
take it and you could you you you could
do new things or things that were deemed
very risky because you had to take
chances to get yourself landed. So it
was also again serendipitously the
greatest luck you could have to be 23
years old
>> and
>> you're a vice president at 23.
>> I was a vice president. No, that's
really unfair. I mean it even makes it
worse. I was at 25 and a half.
>> Okay. Okay. Okay.
>> That was still the youngest. It was the
youngest ever. But yeah,
>> but you're in charge of movies at this
at ABC at 25 and a half, right?
>> Yeah. Well, we started a thing called
movie of the week, which no one had ever
made original movies for television. Uh,
and so we thought that was a good idea
and everybody thought it would fail.
Thank god or otherwise I would have
never given it let me do it. It was
truly inside of a network a total
startup of building actually a movie up
after two years we were making 75 of
them a year. So we started with one
employee, me, and I got to because I
then hired all these people to do all
these tasks. I had to learn those tasks
as I was doing it. So I got up to
understanding. I think it's the best way
to learn to be a manager is to actually
do the groundwork.
And uh and so I got to do that and all
the stuff I think I learned about if I
ever learned anything people who work
with me might uh not totally agree but
uh learning how to manage people is
because you understand the tasks that
need to be done and I got that ability.
>> We started making 25 and then it was so
successful we added a second and then a
third night. So, we were up to making 75
of them a year. They cost I mean, it's
inconceivable today when a single
episode of a one-hour show can cost $10
million.
We made these movies for about 500
500,000 each.
>> Wow. As you sort of learn the the movie
side of things, how did Paramount end up
coming into the picture for you? I'm a
middle level vice president of ABC
successful because the stuff I the
movies and then the miniseries which we
started to do too uh were all fine uh
and I kind of got promoted above my
level of competence uh because they made
me take over all series programming. I
didn't like series. They were all static
and uh half hour and comedies and hour
drama shows, you know, nothing ever
happened to the characters because they
had to stay in the same age and life
that they were in in the storytelling.
So I if I the rug would have gotten
pulled out of under me even though I had
been successful over there because of
the serious stuff. And then, you know,
the o over the horizon came my rescue in
the person of the uh Charles Blueornne
who owned a huge industrial conglomerate
called G and Western and they owned
Paramount and I had gotten to know him
because I sold par movies to Paramount
>> and that's a whole crazy story. They
started Gulf and Western making bumpers
for cars and ended up in a 100 different
businesses including owning
[clears throat] Paramount. He he sought
the Puerto Rican sugar. Uh I mean I
don't think there was I mean maybe they
didn't do grave digging but I mean
practically everything else. Well, they
did make the Godfather in graves, but
they they didn't really do that. But but
they had so many business and it was
this was a time in the 50s60s where
conglomerates
it and and Goff and Western was actually
I think the largest and Charlie who at
that time was in his 40s,
maybe late 30s, early 40s.
>> So he was young too.
>> Yeah. and he had done this I mean in
like 10 years he built this thing up
anyway
he had wanted me to come to work for
Paramount and I never wanted to uh work
there because I didn't like the
management of Paramount and so I kept
saying no to him and one day he ordered
me up to his office and he said okay I'm
going to make you chairman of Paramount
I said Charlie this is insane I'm a vice
president of ABC in television Paramount
is a movie company. You can't do that.
He said, "Oh, yes, I can."
>> And that would make you the legendary
Bob Evans's boss.
>> Yeah. Uh, and he I said, "Mada." He
said, "No, no, you're doing and actually
I thought I went to Leonard Golden who
was the, uh, chairman founder of ABC,
uh, who had once actually worked as a
kind of line person at Paramount and
told him this and said, you know, I'm
thinking, Leonard, of not doing it." He
said, "If you're that stupid, I'll fire
you." Uh, [laughter]
so
>> but you weren't really I mean you had
the opportunity to run a movie studio,
one of the five major movie studios.
>> Yeah.
>> In your 30s. This has never happened
before.
>> Uh, yeah, that's true. And and for the
first two years, I kind of failed
because I had to figure out how to do it
the way I wanted to do it. And it was
very trying. And and that rug really
came close to pulling me out of it. And
then we released a movie called Saturday
Night Fever. And right after that,
Greece.
>> And And that was John Travolta's first
movie, right? Saturday Night Fever.
Saturday Night Fever was John Travolta's
>> Yeah. Yeah. John Travolta came from
television uh from a television series
called Welcome Back Carter. And we put
him in this movie and people said we
were crazy. How can we put a television
you television people the movie people
were such snobs they kind of peed on the
people in television and they thought
how can you put this this this
television comedy guy into this
you know movie this big movie it wasn't
that big a movie actually in terms of
whatever but it was a real theatrical
movie and the night first night we
previewed it not previewed it we did we
did a kind of semi little premiere here,
the old Grman's Chinese Theater on
Hollywood Boulevard, this famous old
theater. And at about and he invited
basically Hollywood to come because we
were really proud of this movie. It was
kind of my last gasp and I was proud of
it although I certainly needed it to
work and it was supposed to start at 8
and at 7:45
there was about 40% of the audience
capacity was there. I mean it was like
more than half empty. And the old
publicity guy from Parent came over to
me and he said, 'Well, you know, you put
this Travolta and that kid just doesn't
put asses in the seats.
And I thought, "Oh god." And 10 days
later, we opened it and there were lines
around the block.
>> Wow. And the thing that people didn't
understand was the Hollywood snobs
wouldn't come see John Travolta, but
America was happy to line up because the
movie got great reviews.
>> Yeah. Hm. So you you're at Paramount,
you're turning it around. You then make
The Godfather 2, the original Star Trek
movie. Saturday Night Mention is you
Saturday Night Fever, as you mentioned,
Greece, Indiana Jones. I mean, you go on
a run.
Paramount becomes the number one studio.
Why did it work?
>> Well, um, it's an assemblage. You know,
that's the bimbo thing. You know, there
are so many people to thank. It was
basically me. No,
it's not true.
>> Diller, everyone.
>> No, it is not true. It worked because I
think we brought a different we brought
a you know in the television business
you develop material and you work on it
for a long time. uh and you do this kind
of ratio of development process where
you may have
uh 30 40 projects and you pick just a
few. The movie business didn't work that
way at that time. It was basically
packages that had been assembled by
basically uh agents who put uh stars
together with a star director whatever
and brought them to the movie company.
And we turned that and just started
developing material. I mean, Saturday
night fever came from a New York
magazine article called the ad something
adventures of a Saturday night
something. Totally made up, by the way.
Didn't really exist. It was fiction by
Nick Cohen, a good writer. And we devel
we bought that magazine article and then
we developed the script. And we ended up
probably having 90 or so projects in
various stages of development. and you
curating that development for getting
into the rhythm of that just helped us
beat the odds.
>> So, at some point you you kind of become
loose in the seat at Paramount. You're
like, I want to I I I'm itching to do
something new and you think that that
new thing is a fourth TV network to
rival CBS, NBC, and ABC, but it gets
killed at Paramount. It didn't get well
there was some little mini recession I
think around 7273
I don't know but somewhere in there and
so G and Western pulled back kind of the
fin it wasn't all that much then but
pulled back the financing so yeah we
couldn't do it
>> you end up instead partnering with
Rubert Murdoch and founding Fox
>> as a television
>> I went to Fox and then Uh, Rupert
followed buying an interest in Fox. Uh,
really basically a few months after I
joined Fox.
>> What did you see?
>> I I I was very lucky. I inherited him.
>> Say more about that.
>> What What's the more part?
>> Uh, today he's a very controversial
figure.
>> That is not really how you describe him
in your book. You really describe him as
he's this electric ball of energy.
>> Oh, no. No. Rupert Murdoch is
Let us separate for those people who do
not as I don't like Fox News but uh as a
as one of the great entrepreneurial
gamblers who from a tiny little
small town newspaper in Adelaide,
Australia
took over when newspapers were the thing
the entire country of Australia and then
moved to the UK and did that. Uh, and
Rupert loved as he he he actually loved
betting the company that I mean he was
he he he was is the perfect
gambling entrepreneur taking huge risk
to do things that usually were against
the establishment.
Uh
and and also he was if you have to work
for anybody I I I would absolutely say
work for him because he gave you all the
authority and responsibility you wanted.
He never made a single operating
decision at Fox. We had one disagreement
in eight years of working together. Uh
first of all I
what he was what he's was able to create
on three continents I think it's three
um thank you
>> uh four India too
>> fourth
>> uh yeah star in India
>> we did a big deep dive on uh IPL cricket
a few months ago and he played a huge
role in TV in India. Oh yes, yes. Oh,
thank you. I didn't even I've got I
learned something tonight. India is a
continent.
>> Well, in Asia, but
>> thank you. Okay, I get it. Anyway, yeah.
>> Uh this is this is this is not in our
script, but I'm actually pretty
interested the do you believe in the
management strategy of betting the
company or do you believe that when
you're running a successful business?
>> Absolutely.
>> Never. [laughter]
>> I absolutely
>> you want to work for RER but you don't
want to run a company like that.
>> I don't got those guts. I actually think
that the only thing I think the only
thing I think you don't do is bet the
company. I mean, you can take all sorts
of risks.
>> You can do all sorts of things that have
that that have not god knows if you
don't do those, nothing will happen. But
to actually bet the company on a single
thing, I I think that is the thing to
absolutely avoid unless
you're in this case Rupert Murdoch
>> or unless you have no other options. I
mean, it's it's it's it's this like
addictive gamblers thing to be betting
the company when you're already at your
biggest when your back's way against the
wall and you sort of have
>> Well, no, that's different. that that
we're talking about a company that's
doing okay and you decide to take that
good company that's doing okay and
because you want to do something new
over here, you place a bet on it that if
it fails, it drags that good company
with it underneath and that's not a good
thing. Don't do that
>> deal. How despite that though you were
inspired by Rupert to become an
entrepreneur and to go be a principal of
your own business. I mean again you were
head of Fox studio and television
network
>> and you
>> your next step
>> your next step was to Westchester,
Pennsylvania, my hometown by the way
>> which is not you know New York or LA
>> not the Gardens to go by.
It was because I wanted to I'd worked
for companies all my life and and and if
you work for a company and you you have
this delusion that it belongs to you and
you should have that you should feel
that the company belongs to you but in
fact it does not and so I got this thing
in my head which was can I be
independent of this I'd been a
corporatist for I was 49 years old And
so I'd been working for 30 years and
could I be on my own? Could I not be
part of a mother church and I got this
thing in my head of you either are or
you're not was but kind of a binary and
I thought it wasn't by the way that I
wanted to do it. I was fat and happy. Uh
>> you were very wealthy at this point. You
had done extremely well.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Things were fine. And um
[laughter]
and I thought uh well you either are
capable of being an in independent and
creating something on your own or you're
not. And as much as I wanted to stay at
Fox, I couldn't accept that I was not.
And it kind of it literally forced me
out the door.
>> And so you have to give up this like I'm
a somebody in the world. I'll tell you
the one thing I did
>> big organization and big budgets and I
>> the one thing I did that really helped
me sorry but I can't help interrupting
you
um thank you the one thing I did is I
began to think
am I not going to go do this because I
will now have to stand in line at an
airport
instead of going on this private plane
that we had
is that really it Am I is my sense so
crummy that I'm going to make this
decision about my life because I can't
stand the idea of not having my own
plane which doesn't belong to me anyway
belongs to somebody else
and I couldn't that one like I said uh I
can't do that I mean I have to I have to
brave that world so how does that sound
everybody [laughter]
by the way it didn't last long but
that's another Yeah. Well,
>> I can tell you nobody in Westchester,
Pennsylvania had a private plane. Uh,
>> all right. So, what you
>> was an amazing business.
>> Walk us through what you did. Why did I
go there?
>> Yeah. How did you find QVC? This is an
amazing story.
>> What happened is is that my wife Dion
von Fenberg uh is a dress designer and
uh and yeah. [applause]
Hallelujah. Yes. So Dion calls me and
she says, "This is uh I'm I'm at Fox."
And she said, "No, no, sorry. I'd left."
And I had no idea what I wanted to do. I
just didn't want to repeat myself. I
didn't want to run another movie
company. I'd already run two. Uh and I
didn't want I just didn't I didn't
wasn't saying I wouldn't do uh movies
and television stuff like that, but I
just didn't want to I wanted to be open
to stuff. So, I got in my car and I
drove across the US just cuz I'd never
uh been in the middle of it and I wanted
to see it. And as I was on this road
trip, Deion called me, said, "You have
to go to Westchester, Pennsylvania, and
see QVC." I said, "What is QVC?" She
said, "It's a home shopping network." I
said, "I'm not going to a home shopping
network. Leave me alone." She said, "No,
no, you have to go see this." And so, I
went there. And it was it was this
primitive convergence of televisions and
telephones and computers working
together. It it it was the first time
and I saw on this little
uh five times as big as the desk stage
thing where product would come up and on
a green screen at the time computer
screen. uh the calls that came in when a
product was put up and people would call
in the the the screen would show it
rising and then they would fall and
rising and falling it and it was an
epiphany. I that word is often overused
but for me I was struck I was struck by
it because I'd only known screens to be
used for telling stories
>> not for interacting for commerce I they
were screens you know a screen you tell
a story on it
>> I had no clue they could be interactive
until I got to QVC and that was
primitive interactivity
and when I saw it I was I I was it was
it was an epiphany and and and then
again the serendipitously
uh two months later I got the
opportunity to buy into it and I did it
and of course everyone in the New York
and certainly Hollywood community
thought I had lost my mind. [laughter]
They said that he's going to
Westchester, Pennsylvania to a home
shopping network, this most successful
person and whatever.
>> And uh yeah, I did that. And and this is
in 93,
>> right? For everyone who's listening,
it's like QVC, but QVC at the time was
about to catch this crazy wave and
become like the IT company. It did do
that. But what it did for me was this is
getting to understand uh some technology
and some of this connectivity and the
possibilities of that
>> two years before in '95 the internet
started to get used by normal folk
>> just put me in this position of knowing
stuff before anyone else and that was
invaluable. And what so IA the company
that you would later found would end up
uh buying, selling, starting or selling
off over 150 companies including
Expedia, Trip Advisors, Angie, Angie's
List, Vimeo, Ticket Master, Tinder,
Match.com.
I mean,
>> yeah,
>> you started in the mail room at William
Morris.
>> Okay.
>> You are like media and text Forest Gump.
>> [laughter]
>> I think I'm a little dumber than Forest,
but that's okay. [laughter]
>> We mean it in the best way. The Okay, we
have one last question for you.
>> Yes, sir. given that you have been at
the top of both of these industries and
you you write about in the book the
state that the media and movie industry
is in now and how it's dominated by tech
companies
>> and I think you talk about how they're a
a much worse business that they are in
your than they were in your time and b a
lot less creative and a lot less fun.
Why is it that the studios were
resilient for the better part of a
century to technology disruption, but
now they're all owned by tech companies
and have those characteristics you
described?
>> Look, what happened was the the movie
business for 100 oh no 75 years.
anything that came along whether it was
tech things like the VCR uh and video
cassettes and things everything cable
television everything that came along
they basically bought in themselves. So
they remained for a very long time
uh the most important companies in quote
media and then along came Netflix
uh a tech company and Netflix
truly if you say one there's one entity
that controls the media entertainment
business today and it is Netflix. They
have won. No one is ever going to beat
them. And then Amazon comes along with
Prime and then Apple and Amazon. How do
you Amazon's business model, which is to
get you to subscribe to Prime and buy a
bunch of stuff. They give you some
video. Now, if you're in that's their
business model. If you're in the
entertainment business, your business
model is create hits. And they don't
really care if you have a hit or not.
They just want more toasters sold etc.
So and these three companies have a
hundred times at least the resources of
these old movie companies. So the whole
hedgeimony has now shifted to tech. tech
now totally controls media
>> and and the net result is that or or if
I could simplify this down, it's that
movie production is just not that big a
business and is being and TV production
and is being used as a loss leader
>> to offer something to consumers for
other tech businesses.
>> Look, no, not at Netflix, it's not a
loss leader, but at Netflix you
subscribe to the service.
>> No one,
>> it's not about the individual piece of
content. one movie is going to mean very
much as so long as you're satisfied with
the service and you subscribe. That's
again a completely different business
model than making hits.
>> Yep. All right. With parting words, what
is a piece of advice you would give to
all the entrepreneurs in the audience
today?
>> A piece of advice
>> straight from Barry Diller.
>> Be curious. I don't know. I got no piece
of advice, [laughter]
>> but I wish everyone the best.
Everyone Dylan,
[music]
>> thank you so much. [applause]
>> Well, that was a great way to end the
night.
>> What a night, David.
>> What a night it was. Well, everyone,
when we started Acquired 10 years ago,
if you told us we would be playing Radio
City Music Hall, I don't think in our
wildest wildest dreams we could have
dreamed this big.
>> No, it was a tech podcast with Yeah,
[cheering]
come on.
>> This has been amazing.
>> So, thank you so much to all of you for
coming tonight and to listening to our
podcast over the years. It means so
much. Thank you so much to Jamie
Diamond, Andrew Ross, Sorcin, Medith
Copet, Levian, and Barry Diller. Thanks
also to our audience participants
Christina Cassiopo, Ben Kimber, Howard
Schultz, and surprisingly Jamie Diamond.
Again,
thank you to our hosts JP Morgan, to
Hermes for dressing us. And most
importantly, thank you to the many,
many, many people on the JP Morgan team
who gave their days, nights, weekends
for this. Thank you to our production
crew. There are hundreds of people who
put on tonight for everyone. Come on
out.
[music]
1 1 2 3
down. Thank you, Mike.
[music]
And most importantly, thank you, Mike
Taylor. Take it [music] all, Mike.
Heat.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Dude, they did it.
What's your line of the night?
>> Barry Diller saying it was all me. Yes.
[laughter]
>> Or or Jamie spoiling that Howard was
here. We had this thing. He's like, I
think Howard Schultz is here.
>> And Andrew Ross Orchid.
>> No surprises.
>> I can't believe.
>> Thanks so much, man. Really appreciate
it.
>> Oh, thanks.
>> So great.
>> Thanks.
>> I can't believe we just played Radio
City,
>> man.
>> Surreal. The world is a wonderful place.
>> Afterparty.
>> Let's do it.
>> So, is Jamie Diamond going to run for
president?
>> We'll see.